An Incident Response Plan Template is a pre-structured format an organization uses to create an incident response plan.  An incident response plan helps an organization respond effectively and efficiently when a security incident occurs. An Incident Response Plan (IRP) is a detailed document that outlines the crucial steps to take before, during, and after a security incident.  An IRPs goal is to limit damage and reduce recovery time and costs.  Components of an IRP are purpose and scope, threat scenarios, roles and responsibilities, and incident response process.  The purpose and scope section describes why the plan is in place and the extent of its coverage. This section can include the types of incidents, how to minimize their impact, and recovery.  The scope describes the types of incidents the plan covers, the systems and data included and the personnel who are a part of the plan.  The threat scenario section identifies and describes the potential incidents that may affect the organization.  Threat scenarios can range from malware attacks and system hacks to natural disasters.  The roles and responsibilities section outlines the personnel involved in the incident response process and their specific duties.  Personnel involved are incident response team, IT staff, management and external entities.  The incident response process section is a step-by-step guide on how to respond to an incident.  From detection to containment, eradication, recovery and post-incident review.  I am going to include a summary of the NIST and IltaNet templates.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) IRP is 79 pages.  The main sections are organizing incident response, handling incidents, coordination and information sharing, and incident handling scenarios.

The International Legal Technology Association (IltaNet) IRP is 5 pages.  The main sections are incident response team, incident response notifications, employee responsibilities, types of incidents, definition of a security breach, classification procedure for potential incidents, response procedure, recovery and periodic testing and remediation.

Things to also keep in mind are make certain your IRP template aligns with you organizations environment and works with existing security protocols.  The IRP template must be up to date to address new threats and changes to your IT department.  Conduct tabletop exercises to identify gaps in the IRP.  These exercises will also test the incident response team preparedness.  Automate responses to common threats by using playbooks to free up the security team for more complex issues.  Incorporate metrics to track IRP effectiveness and use the data for continuous improvement and threat hunting.

